When you come back in this section let's look at constructor's you look at what is a constrictor what
is a default constructor and we look at a few examples pieces of code with constrictors and we look
at how do you call a superclass constructor and also a few examples of this and super.
So we'll discuss a lot of examples Judah's during this specific section.
Let's start with what is a construct that we have used conceptus throughout this.
We mean this course I'm getting a number of bands.
A concept is used to create an object.
So whenever we wanted to create an instance of an object we use a construct.
So one example is new animal off Tommy.
So that's a construct.
So basically the important thing about the constructor is the fact that you use the name at the class
so it has the same name as a class.
It's allowed to have method name which is starting with caps.
I mean this is more a convention rather than something that Jawa forces.
If you look at all the methods they would start with this Mollet.
But most I mean your constructor should start with caps because a class name byte convention you can
have a small name as a last name as well but by convention all the class names would start with a capital
letter and use chemical case.
How would the method names alter use commonly guess but they would start with this model and the constructor
would be the only method where you by convention have a capital letter.
I mean if you want to break the rules and you want to use this more literate the class name that's allowed
and you can do that.
The other important thing you can notice in here is there's no written type for the constructor.
So when I create a constructor the default the return type is class itself.
I am using the constructor I create a specific instance of that.
But let us to I mean you cannot even define that in here so you cannot put animal nothing which aren't
allowed in Java to define it.
And it can accept any number of parameters so you can have a one paramita constructor to parameter construct
a 100 parameter constructor.
The way you would want to have it.
So the one which you have in here is a one argument constructor.
The thing about one argument constructor is there is something called.
Once you create a constructor then you override the default constructor in that particular class.
So we'll look at that a little later.
But what that would mean is I cannot now send you an e-mail because the default constructor is no longer
applicable because I've created a constructor with one argument.
So as soon as I created a constructor with one argument the default no argument constructor which is
present in the class gets ordered and it's not really available anymore.
The first thing which we'll discuss is a default constructor.
So you'd see that this particular animal class has a string name but it does not have any constructor
but still be able to create animals without passing anything.
And this is because the compiler provides this class with a D for more argument Kunstler.
So the default argument constructor is with what.
Which enables us to create this particular thing.
One thing you need to remember is if for this class I add in a constructor like this so if I add that
in a constructor like this in this specific class then this piece of line would start would give you
a compilation failure.
This is because once you provide a constructor once or pro-white a constructor the default constructor
no longer exists like here if I'm trying to do animal animals continue animal here it would give me
a compiler error.
So if this is an argument constructor or to argument constructor then the no argument constructor is
just provided by default by Java will not be provided.
So that's one thing you need to remember.
If you provide a constructor then you are not like then no argument constructor is no longer allowed
to be used.
Let's say a class is extending on a class can we call the superclass constructor from the subclass constructor.
The answer is yes you can call that using the super method code.
So basically over here you are seeing animal and the animal is calling superheroes.
So what it does is it calls like the Animal class in this example does not extend into that class.
So what does a superclass think about it object.
So it's calling the Object class constructor super in here.
So these are you call the superclass constructor and you're writing the logic for that specific animal
as well.
Next question is when this piece of code compiled the answer is No.
Because super If you are calling it it should always be the first line of the constructor.
It cannot be a second line or a third line.
There is another specific method called called this.
When is it used and how is it related to strippers.
So basically from a constructor I can call on the computer to get that done through this method.
So from the Animal class I mean from the animal constructor with no arguments I would want to pass a
default argument.
So I'm calling this of default name then this constructor which is defined in here will be called.
And this will be used to create the object.
So this is how you can call one constructed from the constructor in the same class.
How do you do that.
You use the this method call and the interesting thing about a constructor is that you cannot really
Garlick from it.
You can say new animal that slick creating a instance of the animal but you cannot just say animal and
Puddock open bracket close bracket and invoke it like a method.
So if it was a method one I could call method 1 and that did some magic.
But if it's a constructor having the same name as the class then you are not allowed to do this.
Will this would give you a compilation.
Another interesting thing is the fact that constructor gets called a superclass constructor gets called
even when there is no explicit call.
So for example I have an animal constructor dog constructor dog extenso animal.
Labrador excellent dog and a constructor.
And I'm pretty an instance of the Labrador.
So what would happen is once I'm trying to create a Labrador by default the first line would contain
super.
So if I'm not calling super Java compiler that would put the super in here and it would call the dog
and dog also has a super call.
So it goes to animal complete animal comes back to dog complete dog comes back to Labrador and you'll
see the output which you see at the bottom of the screen which is animal dog and Labrador.
So those are the important things about constrictors.
We saw what happens when no argument constructor is not defined and a one argument constructor is defined
then you cannot call the not cumen constructor anymore.
So what is a default constructor.
And we saw a few examples of constructor as well and we saw this and this super method calls into constrictors.
We'll talk more about constructors in the advanced examples.
Until then though I.